in the last video we talked about the
hypothesis representation for logistic
regression what I like to do now is tell
you about something called the decision
boundary and this will give us a better
sense of what the logistic regressions
hypothesis function is computing to
recap this is where we wrote our last
time where we said that the hypothesis
is represented as H of X equals G of
theta transpose X where G is this
function called the sigmoid function
which looks like this so if slowly
increases from 0 to 1 asymptoting at 1
what I want to do now is try to
understand better when this hypothesis
will make predictions that Y is equal to
1 versus when it might make predictions
that Y is equal to 0 and understand
better what the hypothesis function
looks like particularly when we have
more than one feature concretely this
hypothesis is outputting estimates of
the probability that Y is equal to 1
given X and parametrized by theta so if
we wanted to predict is y equals to 1 or
is y equal to 0 here's something we
might do whenever the hypothesis outputs
that the probability of Y being 1 is
greater than or equal to 0.5 so this
means that it is more likely to be y
equals 1 then y equals 0 then let's
predict y equals 1 and otherwise if the
probably of the estimated probability of
Y being 1 is less than 0.5 then let's
predict y equals 0 and I chose a greater
than or equal to here and less than here
if H of X is equal to 0.5 exactly then
you know we could predict positive or
negative but I put it greater than or
equal to 2 here so we default maybe to
predicting a positive if H of X is 0.5
but that's a detail that really doesn't
matter that much what I want to do is
understand better when is it exactly
that H of X will be greater than or
equal to 0.5 so that will end up
predicting Y is equal to 1 if we look at
this plot of the sigmoid function
notice that the sigmoid function G of Z
is greater than or equal to 0.5 whenever
Z is greater than or equal to 0
so as in this half of the figure that
you know G takes on values that are 0.5
and higher because it's not chair that's
the 0.5 and so when G when Z is positive
G of Z the sigmoid function is greater
than or equal to 0.5 since the
hypothesis for logistic regression is H
of X equals G of theta transpose X this
is therefore going to be greater than or
equal to 0.5 whenever theta transpose X
is greater than or equal to 0 so what
we've shown right because here theta
transpose X takes the row of Z so what
we've shown is that our hypothesis is
going to predict y equals 1 whenever
theta transpose X is greater than or
equal to 0 let's now consider the other
case of when our hypothesis will predict
Y is equal to 0 well by similar argument
H of X is going to be less than 0.5
whenever G of Z is less than 0.5 because
the range of values of Z that cause G of
Z to take on values less than 0.5 well
that's when Z is negative so when G of Z
is less than 0.5 our hypothesis will
predict that Y is equal to 0 and by
similar argument to what we had earlier
H of X is equal to G of theta transpose
X and so we'll predict y equals 0
whenever this quantity theta transpose X
is less than 0 to summarize what we just
worked out we saw that if we decide to
predict whether Y is equal to 1 or Y is
equal to 0 depending on whether the
estimated probability is greater than or
equal to 0.5 or whether it's less than
0.5 then that's the same as saying that
will predict y equals 1 whenever theta
transpose X is straight in
then or equal to zero and will predict y
is equal to zero whenever theta
transpose X is less than zero let's use
this to better understand how the
hypothesis of logistic regression makes
its predictions now let's suppose we
have a training set like that shown on
this slide and suppose our hypothesis is
H of x equals G of theta 0 plus theta 1
X 1 plus theta 2 X 2 we haven't helped
yet about how to fit the parameters of
this model we'll talk about that in the
next video but suppose that very
procedure to be specified we end up
choosing the following values for the
parameters let's say we choose theta 0
equals 3 theta 1 equals 1 theta 2 equals
1 so this means that my parameter vector
is going to be theta equals minus 3 1 1
so we're given this choice of my
hypothesis parameters let's try to
figure out where our hypothesis will end
up predicting y equals 1 and where it
would end up predicting y equals 0 using
the formulas that we worked out on the
previous slide we know that y equals 1
is more likely that is the probability
that y equals 1 is greater than 0.5 or
greater than or equal to 0.5 whenever
theta transpose X is greater than 0 and
this formula that I just underlined
minus 3 plus x1 plus x2 is of course
theta transpose X when theta is equal to
this value of the parameters that we
just chose so for any example for any
example with features x1 and x2 that
satisfy this equation then minus 3 plus
x1 plus x2 is greater than or equal to 0
all hypotheses will think that y equals
1 is more likely or will predict that Y
is equal to 1
we can also take minus three and bring
this to the right and rewrite this as X
1 plus X 2 is greater than or equal to 3
and so equivalently we found that this
hypothesis will predict y equals 1
whenever X 1 plus X 2 is greater than or
equal to 3 let's see what that means on
the figure if I write down the equation
x1 plus x2 equals 3 this defines the
equation of a straight line and if I
draw what that straight line looks like
it gives me the following line which
passes through 3 & 3 on the x1 and the
x2 axes so the part of the input space
the part of the X 1 X 2 plane that
corresponds to when X 1 plus X 2 is
greater than or equal to 3 that's going
to be this right half plane that is
everything to the up and everything to
the upper right portion of this magenta
line that I just drew and so the region
where our hypothesis will predict y
equals 1 is this region you know it's
really this huge region this half space
over to the upper right and let me just
write that down I'm going to call this
the y equals 1 region and in contrast
the region where x1 plus x2 is less than
3 that's when we will predict that Y is
equal to 0 and that corresponds to this
region it's really a half plane but that
region on the left is the region where
our hypothesis will predict y equals 0 I
want to give this line this magenta line
that I drew a name this line there is
called the decision boundary and
concretely this straight line x1 plus x2
equals 3 that corresponds to the center
point so that corresponds to the region
where H of X is equal to 0.5 exactly and
the decision boundary that is this
straight line that's the line that
separates the region where the
hypothesis
when XY equals one from the region where
the hypothesis predicts that y is equal
to zero and just to be clear the
decision boundary is a property of the
hypothesis including the parameters
theta 0 theta 1 theta 2 and in the
figure I drew a training set I drew a
data set in order to help the
visualization but even if we take away
the data set
you know this decision boundary and the
region where we predict y equals one
versus y equals zero that's a property
of the hypothesis and of the parameters
of the hypothesis and not the property
of the data set later on of course we'll
talk about how to fit the parameters and
there we'll end up using the training
set using our data to determine the
value of the parameters but once we have
particular values for the parameters
theta 0 theta 1 theta 2 then that
completely defines the decision boundary
and we don't actually need to plot a
training set in order to plot the
decision boundary
let's now look at a more complex example
where as usual I have crosses to denote
my positive examples and O's to denote
my negative examples given a training
set like this how can I get logistic
regression to fit this sort of data
earlier when we were talking about
polynomial regression or when we're
talking about linear regression we
talked about how we can add extra higher
order polynomial terms to the features
and we can do the same for logistic
regression concretely let's say my
hypothesis looks like this where I've
added two extra features x1 squared and
x2 squared to my features so that I now
have five parameters theta 0 through
theta four as before we'll defer to the
next video our discussion on how to
automatically choose values for the
parameters theta 0 through theta 4 but
let's say that very procedure to be
specified I end up choosing theta 0
equals minus 1 theta 1 equals 0 theta 2
equals 0 theta 3 equals 1 and theta 4
equals 1 what this means is that with
this particular choice of parameters my
parameter that vector theta looks like
minus 1 0 0 1 1 following our earlier
discussion this means that my hypothesis
will predict that Y is equal to 1
whenever minus 1 plus x1 squared plus x2
squared is greater than or equal to 0
this is whenever theta transpose times
my theta transpose my features is
greater than or equal to 0 and if I take
minus 1 and just bring this to the right
I'm saying that my hypothesis will
predict that Y is equal to 1 whenever x1
squared plus x2 squared is greater than
or equal to 1 so what does this decision
boundary look like well if you were to
plot the curve for x1 squared plus x2
squared equals 1 some of you will
recognize that that is the equation for
a circle
a radius one centered around the origin
so that is my decision boundary and
everything outside the circle I'm going
to predict as y equals one so out here
is my y equals one region predict y
equals one out here and inside the
circle is where I predict Y is equal to
0 so by adding these more complex or
these polynomial terms to my features as
well I can get more complex decision
boundaries that don't just try to
separate the positive and negative
examples of a straight line but I can
get in this example a decision boundary
that's a circle once again the decision
boundary is a property not of the
training set but of the hypothesis enter
the parameters so so long as we given my
parameter vector theta that defines the
decision boundary which is the circle
but the training set is not what we use
to define the decision boundary the
training set may be used to fit the
parameters theta we'll talk about how to
do that later but once you have the
parameters theta that is what defines
the decision boundary
let me put back the training set just
just for visualization and finally let's
look at a more complex example so can we
come up with even more complex decision
boundaries Enders if I have even higher
order polynomial terms so things like x1
squared x1 squared x2 x1 squared x2
squared and so on if I have much higher
order polynomials then it is possible to
show that you can get even more complex
decision boundaries and the just
regression can be used to find decision
boundaries that may for example be an
ellipse like that or maybe with a
different setting of the parameters
maybe you can get and set a different
decision boundary which may even look
like you know some funny shape like that
or for even more complex examples may be
you can also get decision boundaries
that could look like you know more
complex shapes like that where
everything
here you predict y equals 1 and
everything outside you predict y equals
0 so these higher order polynomial
features you can get very complex as a
new boundaries so with these
visualizations I hope that gives you a
sense of what's the range of hypothesis
functions we can represent using the
representation that we have for logistic
regression now that we know what H of X
can represent what I'd like to do next
in the following video is talk about how
to automatically choose the parameters
theta so that I given a training set we
can automatically fit the parameters to
our data